README.md, before:

# Email Assistant v8 (imported from v6)

[![Deploy to GitHub Pages](https://github.com/snarky1980/email-assistant-v8-/actions/workflows/pages.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/snarky1980/email-assistant-v8-/actions/workflows/pages.yml)

Live demo: https://snarky1980.github.io/email-assistant-v8-/

This repository starts from the email-assistant v6 codebase and is ready for you to continue work toward v8.

Two ways to run locally:

- Static server (simple, no build step): serves the current folder and the JSON data file.
- Vite dev server (HMR): for active React development in `src/`.

## Quick start: static server

Serve the project root with any static server. Examples (Linux/macOS):

```bash
# from the project root
npx http-server -p 5173 .
# then open in your browser
# http://localhost:5173/
```

The app will load the pill UI and fetch `public/complete_email_templates.json` (served at `/complete_email_templates.json`).

One-command option using the provided script:

```bash
npm run serve:static
```

## React dev workflow (Vite)

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
# open http://localhost:5173/
```

This runs the Vite dev server with HMR using `index.html` and the React entry in `src/main.jsx`.

## Production preview (optional)

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview -- --port 5175
# open http://localhost:5175/
```

Notes:
- If `index.html` uses classic scripts, Vite won’t bundle them, but the React SPA still builds fine. The static server path remains supported.

## Admin Console

A static Admin Console helps edit templates/variables without coding.

- Open: http://localhost:5173/admin.html (same static server)
- Import: Load any existing `complete_email_templates.json` (auto-loads from project root if present)
- Edit: templates, variables, and metadata (FR/EN supported)
- Export: downloads a validated `complete_email_templates.json`; replace the one in the repo and commit

Validation warns about duplicate IDs, unknown categories, missing variables, and unlisted placeholders `<<Var>>`. Warnings don’t block export.

Tip: Keep the main app open at `/` while editing in `/admin.html` to preview changes after updating the JSON file and reloading.

Commit message:

docs: add UI freeze protection - d208852 is canonical mint/sage design
- Add UI-PROTECTION.md with complete design specification
- Update README.md with freeze warning
- Lock emerald/teal/sage color palette
- Document recovery procedure
- Establish change protocol for future work

README.md, after:

# Email Assistant v8 (imported from v6)

[![Deploy to GitHub Pages](https://github.com/snarky1980/email-assistant-v8-/actions/workflows/pages.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/snarky1980/email-assistant-v8-/actions/workflows/pages.yml)

Live demo: https://snarky1980.github.io/email-assistant-v8-/

This repository starts from the email-assistant v6 codebase and is ready for you to continue work toward v8.

## ⚠️ UI FREEZE - DO NOT MODIFY

**CRITICAL**: The current UI design (mint/sage gradients with pills pattern) is the CANONICAL design and must NOT be changed.

- **Canonical commit**: `d208852` - "UX: variables popup movable/resizable + Outlook compose button (mailto) + admin filters"
- **Protected elements**:
  - Main banner with mint/sage/teal gradients
  - Pills pattern design for language and category selection
  - Color scheme: emerald, teal, sage, mint (NOT blue/indigo)
  - Visual banner layout with images
  - Resizable Variables popup
  - "Ouvrir dans Outlook" / "Open in Outlook" button

**Before making ANY UI changes**:
1. Create a feature branch
2. Test locally first
3. Get approval before merging to main
4. Never directly edit color classes without documenting the reason

If you need to revert to the canonical UI: `git reset --hard d208852`

Two ways to run locally:

- Static server (simple, no build step): serves the current folder and the JSON data file.
- Vite dev server (HMR): for active React development in `src/`.

## Quick start: static server

Serve the project root with any static server. Examples (Linux/macOS):

```bash
# from the project root
npx http-server -p 5173 .
# then open in your browser
# http://localhost:5173/
```

The app will load the pill UI and fetch `public/complete_email_templates.json` (served at `/complete_email_templates.json`).

One-command option using the provided script:

```bash
npm run serve:static
```

## React dev workflow (Vite)

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
# open http://localhost:5173/
```

This runs the Vite dev server with HMR using `index.html` and the React entry in `src/main.jsx`.

## Production preview (optional)

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview -- --port 5175
# open http://localhost:5175/
```

Notes:
- If `index.html` uses classic scripts, Vite won’t bundle them, but the React SPA still builds fine. The static server path remains supported.

## Admin Console

A static Admin Console helps edit templates/variables without coding.

- Open: http://localhost:5173/admin.html (same static server)
- Import: Load any existing `complete_email_templates.json` (auto-loads from project root if present)
- Edit: templates, variables, and metadata (FR/EN supported)
- Export: downloads a validated `complete_email_templates.json`; replace the one in the repo and commit

Validation warns about duplicate IDs, unknown categories, missing variables, and unlisted placeholders `<<Var>>`. Warnings don’t block export.

Tip: Keep the main app open at `/` while editing in `/admin.html` to preview changes after updating the JSON file and reloading.
